Mirza Sulayman, son of Khan Mirza, was brought to the Kabul court by Babur once Sulayman’s father died.
He was meant to rule Badakhshan after his fathers death, but seeing as he was a minor at the time,  Babur’s son Humayun took rule in his place until he became of age. The ruler of Kabul, Mirza Kamran son of Babur, seized control of Badakhshan, taking Mirza Sulayman prisoner.
Once Sulayman regained control over Badakshan, it was his intent on taking control over all of Kabul, which was later at the control of Mirza Hakim, Akbar’s brother, which caused much distress with the Mughal courts in India
During Akbar’s reign of the Mughal empire, it was common for the
Mughals and some Mirzas to battle for control over various areas.
This painting depicts Mirza Sulayman fleeing the Mughals in Kabul.
This painting was painted by the Mughal court artist Bhagwan, and the faces were painted by Madhav. In his attempt at capturing Kabul, Mirza Sulayman planted men in Jalalabad, including Qambar.
The head of Qambar was sent to Kabul along with word that Jalalabad was captured.
In the Akbarnama it is stated that “Though M. Sulaiman was disconcerted by the capture of Jalalabad and the noise of the approaching army, yet he comforted his panic-stricken men by declaring the news to be false.”
As much as he tried to calm them and have them believe it to be false, Mirza Sulayman and his wife Haram Bagam argue about their next move.
In the end which is what is depicted in this scene, they decide to flee.
Here you can see Sulayman on his horse. Everybody looks panic stricken and is trying extremely hard to get out of there.
On the right of this painting you can see the excitement of the people when the news of capture of Jalalabad and the head of Qambar reaches them.
In the Akbarnama it reads “ When the news of the favour and of the helping hand of H.M the Shahinshah, and of the capture of Jalalabad reached Kabul, the sound of joy rose high, and the head of Qambar was made an ornament to the battlements.”
With this news comes the eventual release of the inhabitants duties of defending their fort.
At an even closer look, you can see the inhabitants playing the drums, which can be both excitement and an auditory addition to the feeling that would have been Sulayman leaving Kabul.
Some of these men are excited but others are pointing off, which is meant to signify the arrival of Mirza Hakim.
Here you see four goats, three of them looking at the one laying down.
This could be another smaller representation of what is happening within the image with the people.
The three goats are rallying against the one.